

This is the genome-scale metabolic network described in the article:  
**Computational reconstruction of tissue-specific metabolic models: application to human liver metabolism**   
Livnat Jerby, Tomer Shlomi, and Eytan Ruppin; Molecular Systems Biology 6:401,
2010; PmID: [20823844](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20823844) , DOI:
[10.1038/msb.2010.56](dx.doi.org/10.1038/msb.2010.56)  
Abstract:  
The computational study of human metabolism has been advanced with the advent
of the first generic (non-tissue specific) stoichiometric model of human
metabolism. In this study, we present a new algorithm for rapid reconstruction
of tissue-specific genome-scale models of human metabolism. The algorithm
generates a tissue-specific model from the generic human model by integrating
a variety of tissue-specific molecular data sources, including literature-
based knowledge, transcriptomic, proteomic, metabolomic and phenotypic data.
Applying the algorithm, we constructed the first genome-scale stoichiometric
model of hepatic metabolism. The model is verified using standard cross-
validation procedures, and through its ability to carry out hepatic metabolic
functions. The model's flux predictions correlate with flux measurements
across a variety of hormonal and dietary conditions, and improve upon the
predictive performance obtained using the original, generic human model
(prediction accuracy of 0.67 versus 0.46). Finally, the model better predicts
biomarker changes in genetic metabolic disorders than the generic human model
(accuracy of 0.67 versus 0.59). The approach presented can be used to
construct other human tissue-specific models, and be applied to other
organisms.

The original SBML version was produced by COBRA_Toolbox and downloaded from
the suplementary material of the article. To make this model SBML compliant,
the unit for the FLUX_VALUE parameters had to be changed from mmole per gramm
dry weight per hour to mmole per hr. To change the model back to its original
form, either alter the unit definition of the unit mmol_per_hr accordingly or
replace mmol_per_hr by mmol_per_gDW_per_hr in all reactions.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

